DataAcknowledgement.md, before:

# 📄 Data Acknowledgement: Sakila Sample Database

## 1. Introduction

This document acknowledges and describes the origins and structure of the Sakila sample database, which is used throughout this project for educational purposes.

The Sakila sample database was developed and is maintained by the MySQL AB documentation team. It was created to provide a realistic and standardized schema for use in tutorials, books, courses, articles, and demonstrations. In addition to supporting learning and development, Sakila showcases several advanced MySQL features, including views, stored procedures, and triggers.

---

## 2. History

The Sakila database was designed as a more comprehensive replacement for the earlier *World* sample database, also distributed by MySQL AB. While the World database contains basic geographic data (countries, cities, etc.).

Development of Sakila began in early 2005. Its early design was inspired by a sample database from a Dell whitepaper titled *Three Approaches to MySQL Applications on Dell PowerEdge Servers*. Where Dell’s model represented an online DVD store, Sakila models a DVD rental store, complete with customers, inventory, staff, payments, and rentals.

For information an an archetypal "DVD rental store" model, see the [Dell whitepaper](https://www.dell.com/content/dam/dell-content/pdfs/whitepapers/three-approaches-to-mysql-applications-on-dell-poweredge-servers.pdf) - or the [Blockbuster Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockbuster_(retailer)).

The dataset continues to be a widely used resource in MySQL tutorials (and as in the case of this tutorial, SQLite tutorials) and general database education.

---

## 🧠 Educational Purpose

While DVDs and rental stores are no longer common, the Sakila dataset remains relevant for learning any flavor of SQL, relational database design, and data analysis workflows. It reflects realistic business operations and supports complex querying, joining, and schema exploration.

Commit message:

Fixed reference to whitepaper in the data acknowledgement

DataAcknowledgement.md, after:

# 📄 Data Acknowledgement: Sakila Sample Database

## 1. Introduction

This document acknowledges and describes the origins and structure of the Sakila sample database, which is used throughout this project for educational purposes.

The Sakila sample database was developed and is maintained by the MySQL AB documentation team. It was created to provide a realistic and standardized schema for use in tutorials, books, courses, articles, and demonstrations. In addition to supporting learning and development, Sakila showcases several advanced MySQL features, including views, stored procedures, and triggers.

---

## 2. History

The Sakila database was designed as a more comprehensive replacement for the earlier *World* sample database, also distributed by MySQL AB. While the World database contains basic geographic data (countries, cities, etc.).

Development of Sakila began in early 2005. Its early design was inspired by a sample database from a Dell whitepaper titled *Three Approaches to MySQL Applications on Dell PowerEdge Servers*. Where Dell’s model represented an online DVD store, Sakila models a DVD rental store, complete with customers, inventory, staff, payments, and rentals.

For information an an archetypal "DVD rental store" model, see the Dell whitepape *Three Approaches to MySQL Applications on Dell PowerEdge Servers* - or the [Blockbuster Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockbuster_(retailer)).

The dataset continues to be a widely used resource in MySQL tutorials (and as in the case of this tutorial, SQLite tutorials) and general database education.

---

## 🧠 Educational Purpose

While DVDs and rental stores are no longer common, the Sakila dataset remains relevant for learning any flavor of SQL, relational database design, and data analysis workflows. It reflects realistic business operations and supports complex querying, joining, and schema exploration.
